Senior Java Interview Master Guide: review and corrections
Reviewed 7 October 2026

INPUTS
  senior-java-interview-sde3-master-v22-final.md
  senior-java-interview-sde3-master-v22-final.pdf
  Both originals remain in Downloads. The corrected copies are edition v23.

CONFIRMED ISSUES FIXED

1. Damaged document structure and inconsistent navigation
   The v22 Markdown was a text extraction with lost code fences, spacing,
   table structure and links. Its navigation did not consistently match the
   actual parts. The original PDF had stale v14 metadata and a v15 cover.
   Recovered formatting and references from the matching earlier editable
   guide, retained later material from v22, and generated both formats from
   one Markdown source. Removed extraction artifacts and repeated generic
   coaching. Retained Q1-Q272, 36 daily scenarios and 24 simulations.

2. Incomplete Java examples
   The top-three-earners collector was missing its list-to-stream step.
   Q183's TTL cache was missing the map.compute call. Restored both and
   compiled the resulting examples. Ranking now uses decimal salaries and
   a deterministic employee-ID tie-breaker.

3. Concurrency and cancellation errors
   The custom pool could accept a submission after shutdown had allowed
   workers to exit, leaving accepted work unprocessed. Submission and shutdown
   now share one synchronization boundary; rejected work and task failures
   are visible. The pool validates its size and rejects close from a worker.
   The complete producer/consumer example used a data value as termination
   and could strand a peer after failure/interruption. A separate end marker
   and owner-managed completion/cancellation now cover those transitions.
   The guide explicitly states the cooperative-termination limits.

4. Missing input and arithmetic boundaries
   Validated token-bucket capacity/refill parameters; added an injectable
   monotonic clock. Corrected retry-policy validation, overflow handling and
   interruption propagation. Added coin-change and partition-size guards.

5. Inaccurate or overly broad explanations
   Corrected PECS add/read restrictions, checked/runtime exception claims,
   class-loading delegation, async-execution defaults, JWT revocation, record
   immutability, API evolution, JVM/container memory and Kubernetes QoS.
   Qualified Hibernate natural-ID mutability, JPA nested savepoints, local
   versus distributed transactions, SKIP LOCKED queue-claim lifecycle,
   concurrent materialized-view refresh and row-security bypass roles.
   Clarified SQL ties, duplicate dates and NULL aggregate/cleanup behavior.
   Primary-source references are included alongside relevant explanations.

6. PDF usability and visual defects
   Rebuilt a consistent contents page, working part and question navigation,
   PDF bookmarks, external source links, readable code blocks and tables.
   Replaced stale cover/document metadata and removed visible anchor markup.
   Long tables split with repeated headers, and short code blocks stay intact.

EXECUTED VALIDATION

  Environment: Temurin/OpenJDK 21.0.9; Java 21 target, no preview features.

  java code/InterviewAlgorithms.java
    PASS: 3,116 checks.
  java code/WebInterviewPractice.java
    PASS: 12,417 checks.
  javac --release 21 -d <temporary classes directory>
    code/GuideExamples.java code/ProducerConsumerDemo.java
    code/GuideRegressionTests.java
    PASS: 58 standalone snippet groups plus complete program/test harness.
  java -cp <temporary classes directory> GuideRegressionTests
    PASS: 3,288 checks.
  python3 code/SqlRegressionTests.py
    PASS: 17 assertions on SQLite 3.53.1.

  Total: 18,821 Java checks and 17 portable SQL assertions passed.
  Coverage includes repaired inputs, monetary ranking ties, limiter clock
  boundaries, cancellation, pool rejection and 100 submit/shutdown races,
  plus deterministic algorithm comparisons. SQL tests use the exact Markdown
  excerpts and exercise ties, duplicate days, NULLs, cycles and repeat upserts.

  Final PDF: 206 pages; all 272 numbered questions present in Markdown.
  All 4,073 extracted content blocks matched normalized PDF text. Every page
  was rendered and reviewed at contact-sheet scale, with representative code,
  navigation, table and appendix pages inspected at higher resolution.
  Text geometry checks found no content outside the checked page margins.
  All internal PDF destinations resolved; the 20 contents links were checked
  against their actual part start pages. The PDF contains 65 internal link
  annotations and 117 external URI annotations (wrapped links can create
  multiple annotations). Extracted Java harness snippets and the complete
  producer/consumer file were checked against the final Markdown.

VALIDATION LIMITS

  Framework/JPA mappings, PostgreSQL locking/RLS, cloud deployments,
  Kubernetes and external integrations were not executed end to end.
  SQLite does not establish PostgreSQL-specific behavior. Compilation uses
  test wrappers/imports/fixtures for fragments; it does not make every example
  a standalone application. Concurrency checks sample schedules, not all
  possible interleavings. Product limits and support matrices must be checked
  for the deployed version. This review does not establish zero defects.

  No application or tech-blog source was changed, so repository build and
  tech-blog completion gates were not applicable to this standalone review.

DELIVERY

  The Markdown is the editable source for the corrected PDF. The code folder
  includes runnable companions, regressions and instructions in README.txt.
  The ZIP contains both documents, these notes and the complete code folder.
